Today I learned:

- Hydroponics!  This is growing things without soil.  Why?
	- It's efficent
	- It's high yield
	- It looks fun

	Cons:
	- Requires setup (but it looks like it's mostly containers and PVC)
	- Requires pump in most setups i.e electricity
	- If things fail crops die

	Note that while it's suitable for indoors if you don't have enough sunlight, it's not worth it.  Grow lights are very expensive or expensive to run.

	How it works:

	Plants need air, nutrients, water and light.  Hydroponics combines the water and nutrients into one thing using a mixture.  Light is basically sun or grow lights but indenpendent of the setup.

	Types
	------
	-	Kratky - The plant is suspended over a reservoir, as it drinks the water level shrinks and the roots get exposed to air.  It can be filled back up but never all the way to avoid drowning the plant.  The reservoir must also be opaque as light promotes algea and rot.
			
		- Pros:
			- Simple
			- No electricity
			- Set and forget
		- Cons:
			- Lower yield

	-	Wicking - The plant is in a medium.  A wicking materiallike fabric or rope uses capillar action to pull water tothe roots.

		- Pros:
			- Simple
			- No electricity
		- Cons:
			- Only works for small plants

	-	Deep Water Culture (DWC) - The plant is suspended over areservoir.  The water level is kept constant and an airpump (usually, plus an airstone to create more bubbles) isused to dissolve air into the water.

		- Pros:
			- Better yield
		- Cons:
			- Electricity, complexity
			- If pump fails plant will drown

	-	Ebb and Flow - The plant is suspended over a reservoir. The reservoir is periodically drained and filled atintervals.

		- Pros:
			- Usually for plants that expect wet/dry periods
		- Cons:
			- Complexity
			- If pump fails plants may die

	-	Nutrient Film Technique - The plant is placed in a tube. The tube has water constantly flowing through it andeventually empties back into a reservoir where it is pumpedback up to start again.

		- Pros:
			- Very scalable, can create large vertical systems
		- Cons:
			- Complexity
			- Only for smaller plants

	-	Aeroponics - The plant is place in a reservoir. Sprayersspray the roots of the plant.

		- Pros:
			- Less water usage
			- Higher yield
		- Cons:
			- Complexity
			- More fragile, sprayers can clog

	-	Fogponics - Same as aeroponics but uses a fog instead of sprayers.

	-	Aquaponics - A hybrid of aquaculture and hydroponics. Fish in the first stage provide the nutrients for theplants.  Their waste is filtered and then circulated to ahydroponic system.  The water is then pumped back up in thethe tank.
