Today I learned:

- Korean Natural Farming - There's a whole lot of acronyms here.  KNF is basically using local microbes to enhance garden production.  There are a number of different brews that you make and mix such as:
	- LAB - Lactobacilius serum.  Made from rice starch water put out for a few days and then mixed 1:10 with milk to produce curds and whey.  The curds can be made into cheese, the whey is inoculated with LAB and can be used in 1:1000 ration in water.  It generally outcompetes other bacteria and produces lactic acid.  It's used in bokashi, as a spray for plants, deoderizer etc.  Can be mixed in a 1:1 ratio with brown sugar or molassas to become shelf stable.
	- FPJ - Fermeted Plant Juice.  Made from clippings of the last 4-6 inches of growing weeds in the area.  Usually harvested in morning.  These are cut and mixed 1:1 with brown sugar and then left to ferment.  This turns into a liquid and supposedly helps plants grow.
	- WSC - Water soluable calcium.  This is made by charring egg shells or bones and then adding vinegar to them.  This will create a mixture that contains calcium as the bones/eggs will dissolve.
	- FFA - Femented fish aminos.  This is made by coating fish parts with 1:1 brown sugar and then letting it ferment for months.  Good source of nitrogen.
	- IMO (1-5) - Indigenous micro-organisms.  The different numbers indicate a step in a process, each one is it's own mixture of things but the general idea is you collect yeast, mold, bacteria etc to use with other things.

- Vinegar is made by using yeast to turn sugar into alcohol (anerobic) and then alcohol in to vinegar (aerobic).  You add waterever fruit and then push it under water to start the process.  Once it stops producing gas then it can be turned into vinegar by letting it breathe until a mother forms.  The mother will slowly acidify it.

- QR code have a bunch of enocoding modes.  One for digits, one for alphanumeric (not lowercase) and one for binary data.  There's others but they are well supported.  QR code can vary in size with each "version" increasing the diminesions by 4.