Today I learned:

WebXR.  It's the replacement for the deprecated WebVR though using it sucks especially in conjunction with an Oculus Rift.

WebXR is starts by opening an XR session in which you can pass a rendering context and in the draw loop it will pass things back like the headset and controller positions.  This seems to be a change in concept from having the gamepad API handle controller poses, my guess is because you might need handtracking and such that the controller itself doesn't define.

What I wanted to do was see if I can use an Oculus Touch controller to navigate a webpage.  The problem is Oculus needs it's software running first which causes all sorts of problems.  Firsly, the Touch controllers interface directly with the headset which means you can't use them independently.  In terms of WebXR this means you need a dummy session to get controller data.  The other sucky part is that the boot time matters, the WebXR session will fail with an undefined error if the device isn't ready (running FireFox app) and you need to try again.  There's also issues with trying to ask for the inputSource reference before the render loop, the device isn't ready and won't report controllers until it's rendered a few frames.  Furthermore, it seems only Firefox actually supports an Oculus Rift, Chrome does not seem to have any support for PCVR even though its implementation is more mature.

WebXR at least right now needs a polyfill in Firefox: https://github.com/immersive-web/webxr-polyfill.  So I'm browser limited and device limited.  Extracting the pointer data will probably be very tedious as I don't exactly know what those matricies represent.